this is a video about autism autism
spectrum disorders including Asperger's
and it's an incredibly depressing topic
to do research on and maybe that's the
fundamental problem we're facing in the
21st century is that research of this
kind has become easier and easier to do
but most people live their lives in a
soup of highly emotionally moving
propaganda on these issues so they never
do the Google search they never look up
peer-reviewed scientific articles even
though it's so easy to do compared to
the effort of going to a library or
getting an encyclopedia on paper how
hard it was to do research at this time
20 years ago let's say it's become so
easy but people are disincentivized
because they're given powerful
propaganda messages in Hollywood movies
in YouTube videos in stirring stories on
the news and they don't question where
their sense of certainty comes from they
don't think through how do I know the
things that I think I know there's gonna
pause here I know for some people this
is the first video you've ever seen on
my channel a lot of people have a
misconception about me that I'm an
egomaniac or that I think of myself as
brilliant or that I think of myself as a
genius and I don't I'm actually very
very aware of the limits of my
intelligence
partly because I've lived a life where I
really pushed against the limits of my
village I've tried to do things at the
upper limits of my intelligence and then
you find out what you can't do and
partly because now I'm more than 40
years old and I really feel how limited
my cognitive capacity is now compared to
what it was in my early 20s okay that is
an incredibly humbling thing to live
with is the awareness
having limited cognitive capacity now
compared to what you were capable of
when you were younger and I live with
that every day
I also engage in the incredibly humbling
process of studying foreign languages
and let me tell you there is absolutely
no evidence that I'm a linguistic genius
if there is any such thing as linguistic
genius I have my doubts about that the
advantage I have over my contemporaries
the quality I have that sometimes makes
me seem a brilliant that makes me seem
like a genius when I'm in the company of
other people my same age when I'm in the
company of other people younger than
myself is that I'm intensely aware of
the limits of my own knowledge of the
limits of my own expertise I don't
forget how I came to learn something I
never stopped questioning with myself
and others how do we know what we think
we know and the answer very often is
propaganda all right had a conversation
now a couple months ago with people and
they were presenting as facts ideas they
had about gun control in Switzerland in
Israel
wait wait wait wait a minute wait a
minute let's Google that what why do you
think that's the case about gun control
in Israel 5-minute google search turns
out this idea you had about gun
ownership in Israel it's not the case
legalization of drugs in Portugal
legalization of drugs in Colombia and so
wait wait a minute wait a minute
very often the people I'm talking to
they have a fixed notion in their minds
of the way the world is and the way the
world ought to be
and they cling to it for highly
emotionally charged reasons and they
don't have the detachment to loosen up
and think wait a minute how did I form
this opinion how did I come to regard
this as fact what were my sources of
information a really brief example
there's a war
most nobody has heard of war that took
place between Thailand and France and I
remember talking to a guy and he was
supposedly more of an expert than I was
I knew a lot more than he did as it
turned out and I remember a challenging
I said wait a minute
where did you get this claim that the
French won these land battles because
I've been over all the evidence that's
available and the French lost the French
lost the war and they lost these
particular battles and he talked me for
awhile and there was a pause in the
email and he got back to me and he had
to realize he really had been reading
French propaganda oh the forms of
propaganda we encounter are not always
that obvious they're not always that
blatant but people get deeply attached
to a stereotyped notion of what it means
to have asperger's of what it means to
have high functioning autism and then it
seems they're not willing to face up to
the reality of what the condition is not
even when you show them a quotation from
a peer-reviewed medical journal that's
really clearly telling you impaired
cognitive function lacking gray matter
and crucial parts of the brain etc etc
[Music]
[Applause]
calm it is not coming off so you can
beat your head no
so you when you are safe it comes on
[Music]
[Applause]
hello and in this video I would like to
talk about a bra lacy ow
you are a right-wing neoliberal you are
a propagandist you are a grifter you are
a liar and for the record yes Apple SEL
I know that you are in fact a liar
not just not just someone who gets who
gets bags and you and the more radical
elements the vegan community to which
you claim to go on I know that you
deliberately lie
about these elements to to get profit
from
from right we need politicians and
neoliberal capitalist organizations I
don't have the evidence on me however a
tremendous number of people who consider
themselves intelligent and well-informed
wrote into me to tell me how wrong I was
to describe autism and Asperger's
syndrome as really serious mental
disabilities to describe them as a
mental disability at all at some in some
cases people wrote in to say that they
did not believe it was an intellectual
disability at all and that therefore it
was inappropriate to refer to it as
mental retardation let me ask you
something how do I know that broccoli is
healthy scientifically I looked up what
broccoli is made of I found out the
constituent material components of
broccoli and broccoli has a certain
amount of various vitamins and various
minerals it has a certain amount of
protein a certain amount of calories a
certain amount of fat you can look at
those constituent elements and feel
reasonably certain that you know what
broccoli is when I've had debates with
people who subscribe to highly eccentric
views on nutritional science I found
that they actually had no answer to this
line of reasoning whereas they may be
committed to a very spiritual way of
thinking about what food is there's a
material sense in which we can answer
what something is and then start to
understand its function in the body and
come to conclusions none of these people
writing to me to defend the glorified
propaganda notion of autism of
Asperger's of the other spectrum
disorders none of them
had ever looked into the question of
what autism is what are the structural
abnormalities in the brain that show up
on an MRI scan what are the types of
cognitive deficit what are the types of
impairment what are the types of
disability none of them ever showed any
interest in the opinions and experiences
of nurses who have to take care of these
people for eight hours a day or 10 hours
a day and what their perspective is
they're the ones who really know much
less would they challenge the propaganda
function of presenting the tiny tiny
minority of so-called savants with this
condition people who are brilliant in
ethics they wouldn't check into what
percentage of people with this condition
are represented by these these people
who managed to get cleaned up and put on
stage and give a lecture telling you how
wonderful their lives are with autism
and how does that compare to the
experiences of say the specialized
nurses who day in and day out have to
bathe these people feed these people
restrain them from hurting themselves
clean their kitchens ok don't show him
the food until he's sitting down hold it
don't make him sit down well don't make
him encourage elicit down ok now that
he's sitting now he can eat
there's always a you know some
underlying ideology he doesn't just hit
himself for no reason but some of its
behavioral you see it continue continue
continue or it gets to the point of
crazy sim then then you know that
there's some underlying etiology usually
medical ear infection throat infection
something and just like with an infant
when the team knows me and my
preferences and can help me create a
routine that makes a big difference for
staff and security patients on the
spectrum can present a unique challenge
if anyone is called into situation where
a patient may be on the spectrum here
are some things to remember first don't
escalate the situation stay calm and be
patient see if there is a caregiver
nearby try to establish if the patient
has a way of communicating there was no
interest in looking into the Criminology
of autism oh yes it may sound like
propaganda for someone to point out to
you that a shockingly high percentage of
serial killers and mass murders have
autistic spectrum disorders they're
autistic or they have Asperger's
etcetera shockingly high Oh to the list
of 239 mass murderers and serial killers
meeting certain criteria since 1985 67
out of 239 67 out of 239 had some kind
of autism you can read through all 67
case studies of people with kandace
condition who became mass murderers and
serial killers
mostly oh well well that's no more
representative than the glorified image
presented in Rain Man and you know what
I've just now been looking at a whole
stack of peer reviewed articles many of
which engage in a kind of dishonest
sleight of hand many of which made the
claim well there is a problem with
people with autistic spectrum disorders
committing crimes there is a huge over
representation of people with Asperger's
syndrome in prisons and in the special
mental hospitals for people who've
committed crimes they're a mix of
psychiatric care and prison that's
opposed yeah
there's a much higher percentage of
those people behind bars then there are
these people with this condition out in
the gym that's true but but nevertheless
the vast majority of people with autism
never commit a crime in their lives I
think you just saw on screen the the
very very round number of 50 percent
suggesting to you that 50 percent of
people with autism remain nonverbal for
their entire lives
the vast majority of people on that
spectrum never get a job as the video
said never contribute to society that's
debatable concept but that they do not
lead normal lives much less or they this
Hollywood stereotype of the slightly
eccentric math genius that they wail and
moan and punch themselves in the face
and scratch at their skin that their
lives are misery from the day they born
till the day they die and they never
speak a word not even in their first
language that their parents try so hard
to teach them could be 50% the numbers
the numbers are unknown because nobody
really wants to know it's a problem
everyone wants to say something
flattering and positive and uplifting
about everyone wants to take a
one-in-a-million example and show you oh
don't be afraid of people with
Asperger's disorder be afraid of people
with autism don't feel mortified if
you're a parent and this is your child
don't think about this as the really
crippling really serious disability that
it is things will be all right things
will be okay one of my brother's was
born with autism one that's what the
doctors told the mother and the brothers
and sisters never said a word his entire
life he's about 15 years older than I am
he's lived his whole life his whole life
being taken care of but the generous
of the Canadian taxpayer and I hated my
father because my father never went to
visit him my father never took me to
visit it and I thought that was deeply
immoral of my father and it was only
when I really pushed my father on him
when I was getting into my early 20s
when I said look why did you do why did
you never take me to meet my brother my
brother was in a mental hospital
somewhere and my father broke down
crying a little bit and he started to
rant about just how mentally disabled my
half-brother was and how he felt it was
useless to visit him that he couldn't
even recognize his own father that he
couldn't communicate for appellee and so
on and so forth that like some of the
people you just saw in this video he was
just a screaming howling mess of
repetitive behaviors violent tendencies
taken care of by nurses nurses who don't
seem to get interviewed on the nightly
news when they do uplifting upbeat
stories about autism and Asperger's and
you know what even that diagnosis I'm
skeptical as hell about it because the
propaganda has been so successful that
many doctors want to give their parents
want to give the parents of disabled
children the diagnosis of autism or the
diagnosis diagnosis of Asperger's
disease instead of using of course a
word like [ __ ] nobody wants to hear
that word instead of just saying
mentally handicapped instead of maybe
using the term brain-damaged my
half-brother
who has that condition his mother
attempted suicide during the pregnancy
she attempted to kill herself with gas
inhalation from a stove when I mentioned
this to my sister sister who knew him
better than I did she was shocked she
had been told her whole life by her
mother he was just born autistic
he was just born that way must just be
something in the DNA
she had never admitted to her own
daughter that she attempted suicide
during pregnancy that she had inhaled
gas that she had damaged her own brain
and damaged the brain of the developing
fetus so sometimes these diagnoses as
harsh and terrible as they are are still
a flattering way for people to evade the
reality of the condition that they've
got say again autism is a very serious
disability Asperger's syndrome is a very
serious disability and in part because
there have been several mass shootings
and mass murders carried out within our
lifetimes by people who have Asperger's
and autistic spectrum disorder there is
a very overt media effort to reassure
the public that nothing is wrong I don't
want you to be reassured I want you to
do the same kind of research I did about
broccoli I want you to look into what
the actual disability in the brain is
that shows up on an MRI scan so when
you're talking about autism when you're
talking about Asperger's you're not just
talking about something like depression
you're not just talking about a mood or
an attitude or an emotion you're not
talking with something like PTSD a bad
experience in life you're talking about
an abnormality in the brain that's
exhibited that can be tested against
physically real criteria and that shows
up on an MRI scan that shows up after
the person dies of natural causes when
you bisect and examine the brain it's
medically real it's debilitating get to
know the reality of autistic spectrum
disorder and stop believing
the Hollywood [ __ ] Danton
[Music]